docs/setup/install/install-devtron-helm-3.md, before:

# Install Devtron using Helm

## Before you begin

Install [Helm3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

## Installing Devtron using Helm

1. Add Devtron repository
2. Install Devtron

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Install with default configurations" %}
This installation will use Minio for storing build logs and cache. 

```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai

helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Install with AWS S3 Buckets" %}
This installation will use AWS s3 buckets for storing build logs and cache. Refer to the `AWS specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.

```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai
helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd} \
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=S3 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_BUILD_LOGS_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CD_LOGS_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Install with Azure Blob Storage" %}
This installation will use Azure Blob Storage for storing build logs and cache.
Refer to the `Azure specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.

```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai
helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd} \
--set secrets.AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=xxxxxxxxxx \
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=AZURE \
--set configs.AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=test-account \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_LOG=ci-log-container \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_CACHE=ci-cache-container
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

For those countries/users where Github is blocked, you can use Gitee as the installation source.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Install with Gitee" %}
```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai
helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd --set installer.source=gitee
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

If you are planning to use Devtron for `production deployments`, please refer to our recommended overrides for [Devtron Installation](override-default-devtron-installation-configs.md).


## Installing Devtron (Beta) using Helm

We also release beta versions of devtron every few days before the stable release for people who would like to explore and test beta features before everyone else. If you want to install a fresh devtron from beta release channel, use the chart in our official devtron repository.

This chart is currently not available on the official helm repository therefore you need to download it to install it.

1. Clone Devtron Repositry 
2. Upgrade Helm Dependency
3. Install Devtron

```bash 
$ git clone [https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git](https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git)
$ cd devtron/charts/devtron
$ helm dependency up
$ #modify values in values.yaml
$ helm install devtron . --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}

```
{% tab title="Install with AWS S3 Buckets" %}
This installation will use AWS s3 buckets for storing build logs and cache. Refer to the `AWS specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.
```bash
$ git clone [https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git](https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git)
$ cd devtron/charts/devtron
$ helm dependency up
$ #modify values in values.yaml
$ helm install devtron . --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}\
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=S3 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_BUILD_LOGS_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CD_LOGS_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1
```

{% tab title="Install with Azure Blob Storage" %}
This installation will use Azure Blob Storage for storing build logs and cache.
Refer to the `Azure specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.

```bash
$ git clone [https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git](https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git)
$ cd devtron/charts/devtron
$ helm dependency up
$ #modify values in values.yaml
$ helm install devtron .  --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}\
--set secrets.AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=xxxxxxxxxx \
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=AZURE \
--set configs.AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=test-account \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_LOG=ci-log-container \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_CACHE=ci-cache-container
```

> Note: There is no option to upgrade to beta on stack manager UI as of now and you may always see upgrade available for latest stable version using which you'll be moved to latest stable version available.

## Check Devtron installation status

The install commands start Devtron-operator, which takes about 20 minutes to spin up all of the Devtron microservices one by one. You can use the following command to check the status of the installation:

```bash
kubectl -n devtroncd get installers installer-devtron -o jsonpath='{.status.sync.status}'
```

The command executes with one of the following output message, indicating the status of the installation:

| Status | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `Downloaded` | Installer has downloaded all the manifests and installation is in progress. |
| `Applied` | Installer has successfully applied all the manifests and installation is complete. |

## Check the installer logs

To check the installer logs run the following command:

```bash
kubectl logs -f -l app=inception -n devtroncd
```

## Access Devtron dashboard

If you did not provide a **BASE\_URL** during installation or have used the default installation, Devtron creates a load balancer for you on its own. Use the following command to get the dashboard URL.

```bash
kubectl get svc -n devtroncd devtron-service -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress}'
```

You will get an output similar to the one shown below:

```bash
[test2@server ~]$ kubectl get svc -n devtroncd devtron-service -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress}'
[map[hostname:aaff16e9760594a92afa0140dbfd99f7-305259315.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com]]
```

The hostname mentioned here `aaff16e9760594a92afa0140dbfd99f7-305259315.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com` is the Loadbalancer URL where you can access the Devtron dashboard.

If you don't see any results or receive a message that says "service doesn't exist," it means Devtron is still installing; please check back in 5 minutes.

> Note: You can also do a `CNAME` entry corresponding to your domain/subdomain to point to this Loadbalancer URL to access it at a custom domain.

| Host | Type | Points to |
| ---: | :--- | :--- |
| devtron.yourdomain.com | CNAME | aaff16e9760594a92afa0140dbfd99f7-305259315.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com |

### Devtron Admin credentials

#### For Devtron version v0.6.0 and higher

Use username:`admin` and for password run command mentioned below.
```bash
kubectl -n devtroncd get secret devtron-secret -o jsonpath='{.data.ADMIN_PASSWORD}' | base64 -d
```

#### For Devtron version less than v0.6.0

Use username:`admin` and for password run command mentioned below.
```bash
kubectl -n devtroncd get secret devtron-secret -o jsonpath='{.data.ACD_PASSWORD}' | base64 -d
```

## Cleaning Devtron Installer Helm3

Please make sure that you do not have anything inside namespaces devtroncd, devtron-cd, devtron-ci, and devtron-demo as the below steps will clean everything inside these namespaces:

```bash
helm uninstall devtron --namespace devtroncd
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devtron-labs/charts/main/charts/devtron/crds/crd-devtron.yaml
kubectl delete -n argo -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devtron-labs/devtron/main/manifests/yamls/workflow.yaml
kubectl delete ns devtroncd devtron-cd devtron-ci devtron-demo
```

### Cleanup

Run the following commands to delete all the components installed by Devtron:

```bash
cd devtron-installation-script/

kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f yamls/
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f charts/devtron/templates/devtron-installer.yaml
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f charts/devtron/templates/install.yaml
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f charts/devtron/crds
kubectl delete ns devtroncd
```

### FAQs

<details>
  <summary>1. How will I know when the installation is finished?</summary>
  
  Run the following command to check the status of the installation:
  
  ```bash
  kubectl -n devtroncd get installers installer-devtron -o jsonpath='{.status.sync.status}'
  ```

  The above command will print `Applied` once the installation process is complete. The installation process could take up to 30 minutes. 
</details>

<details>
  <summary>2. How do I track the progress of the installation?</summary>

  Run the following command to check the logs of the Pod:

  ```bash
  pod=$(kubectl -n devtroncd get po -l app=inception -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')&& kubectl -n devtroncd logs -f $pod
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>3. How can I restart the installation if the Devtron installer logs contain an error?</summary>

  First run the below command to clean up components installed by Devtron installer:

  ```bash
  cd devtron-installation-script/
  kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f yamls/
  kubectl -n devtroncd patch installer installer-devtron --type json -p '[{"op": "remove", "path": "/status"}]'
  ```

  Next, [install Devtron using Helm3](./install-devtron-helm-3.md)
</details>


Still facing issues, please reach out to us on [discord](https://discord.gg/jsRG5qx2gp).

Commit message:

Added purpose of admin login

docs/setup/install/install-devtron-helm-3.md, after:

# Install Devtron using Helm

## Before you begin

Install [Helm3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

## Installing Devtron using Helm

1. Add Devtron repository
2. Install Devtron

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Install with default configurations" %}
This installation will use Minio for storing build logs and cache. 

```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai

helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Install with AWS S3 Buckets" %}
This installation will use AWS s3 buckets for storing build logs and cache. Refer to the `AWS specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.

```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai
helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd} \
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=S3 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_BUILD_LOGS_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CD_LOGS_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Install with Azure Blob Storage" %}
This installation will use Azure Blob Storage for storing build logs and cache.
Refer to the `Azure specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.

```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai
helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd} \
--set secrets.AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=xxxxxxxxxx \
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=AZURE \
--set configs.AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=test-account \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_LOG=ci-log-container \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_CACHE=ci-cache-container
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

For those countries/users where Github is blocked, you can use Gitee as the installation source.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Install with Gitee" %}
```bash
helm repo add devtron https://helm.devtron.ai
helm install devtron devtron/devtron-operator --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd --set installer.source=gitee
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

If you are planning to use Devtron for `production deployments`, please refer to our recommended overrides for [Devtron Installation](override-default-devtron-installation-configs.md).


## Installing Devtron (Beta) using Helm

We also release beta versions of devtron every few days before the stable release for people who would like to explore and test beta features before everyone else. If you want to install a fresh devtron from beta release channel, use the chart in our official devtron repository.

This chart is currently not available on the official helm repository therefore you need to download it to install it.

1. Clone Devtron Repositry 
2. Upgrade Helm Dependency
3. Install Devtron

```bash 
$ git clone [https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git](https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git)
$ cd devtron/charts/devtron
$ helm dependency up
$ #modify values in values.yaml
$ helm install devtron . --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}

```
{% tab title="Install with AWS S3 Buckets" %}
This installation will use AWS s3 buckets for storing build logs and cache. Refer to the `AWS specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.
```bash
$ git clone [https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git](https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git)
$ cd devtron/charts/devtron
$ helm dependency up
$ #modify values in values.yaml
$ helm install devtron . --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}\
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=S3 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CACHE_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1 \
--set configs.DEFAULT_BUILD_LOGS_BUCKET=demo-s3-bucket \
--set configs.DEFAULT_CD_LOGS_BUCKET_REGION=us-east-1
```

{% tab title="Install with Azure Blob Storage" %}
This installation will use Azure Blob Storage for storing build logs and cache.
Refer to the `Azure specific` parameters on the [Storage for Logs and Cache](./installation-configuration.md#storage-for-logs-and-cache) page.

```bash
$ git clone [https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git](https://github.com/devtron-labs/devtron.git)
$ cd devtron/charts/devtron
$ helm dependency up
$ #modify values in values.yaml
$ helm install devtron .  --create-namespace --namespace devtroncd \
--set installer.modules={cicd}\
--set secrets.AZURE_ACCOUNT_KEY=xxxxxxxxxx \
--set configs.BLOB_STORAGE_PROVIDER=AZURE \
--set configs.AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME=test-account \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_LOG=ci-log-container \
--set configs.AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_CI_CACHE=ci-cache-container
```

> Note: There is no option to upgrade to beta on stack manager UI as of now and you may always see upgrade available for latest stable version using which you'll be moved to latest stable version available.

## Check Devtron installation status

The install commands start Devtron-operator, which takes about 20 minutes to spin up all of the Devtron microservices one by one. You can use the following command to check the status of the installation:

```bash
kubectl -n devtroncd get installers installer-devtron -o jsonpath='{.status.sync.status}'
```

The command executes with one of the following output message, indicating the status of the installation:

| Status | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `Downloaded` | Installer has downloaded all the manifests and installation is in progress. |
| `Applied` | Installer has successfully applied all the manifests and installation is complete. |

## Check the installer logs

To check the installer logs run the following command:

```bash
kubectl logs -f -l app=inception -n devtroncd
```

## Access Devtron dashboard

If you did not provide a **BASE\_URL** during installation or have used the default installation, Devtron creates a load balancer for you on its own. Use the following command to get the dashboard URL.

```bash
kubectl get svc -n devtroncd devtron-service -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress}'
```

You will get an output similar to the one shown below:

```bash
[test2@server ~]$ kubectl get svc -n devtroncd devtron-service -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress}'
[map[hostname:aaff16e9760594a92afa0140dbfd99f7-305259315.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com]]
```

The hostname mentioned here `aaff16e9760594a92afa0140dbfd99f7-305259315.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com` is the Loadbalancer URL where you can access the Devtron dashboard.

If you don't see any results or receive a message that says "service doesn't exist," it means Devtron is still installing; please check back in 5 minutes.

> Note: You can also do a `CNAME` entry corresponding to your domain/subdomain to point to this Loadbalancer URL to access it at a custom domain.

| Host | Type | Points to |
| ---: | :--- | :--- |
| devtron.yourdomain.com | CNAME | aaff16e9760594a92afa0140dbfd99f7-305259315.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com |

### Devtron Admin credentials

When you install Devtron for the first time, it creates a default admin user and password (with unrestricted access to Devtron). You can use that credentials to log in as an administrator. 

After the initial login, we recommend you set up any SSO service like Google, GitHub, etc., and then add other users (including yourself). Subsequently, all the users can use the same SSO (let's say, GitHub) to log in to Devtron's dashboard.

The section below will help you understand the process of getting the administrator credentials.

#### For Devtron version v0.6.0 and higher

Use username:`admin` and for password run command mentioned below.
```bash
kubectl -n devtroncd get secret devtron-secret -o jsonpath='{.data.ADMIN_PASSWORD}' | base64 -d
```

#### For Devtron version less than v0.6.0

Use username:`admin` and for password run command mentioned below.
```bash
kubectl -n devtroncd get secret devtron-secret -o jsonpath='{.data.ACD_PASSWORD}' | base64 -d
```

## Cleaning Devtron Installer Helm3

Please make sure that you do not have anything inside namespaces devtroncd, devtron-cd, devtron-ci, and devtron-demo as the below steps will clean everything inside these namespaces:

```bash
helm uninstall devtron --namespace devtroncd
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devtron-labs/charts/main/charts/devtron/crds/crd-devtron.yaml
kubectl delete -n argo -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devtron-labs/devtron/main/manifests/yamls/workflow.yaml
kubectl delete ns devtroncd devtron-cd devtron-ci devtron-demo
```

### Cleanup

Run the following commands to delete all the components installed by Devtron:

```bash
cd devtron-installation-script/

kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f yamls/
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f charts/devtron/templates/devtron-installer.yaml
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f charts/devtron/templates/install.yaml
kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f charts/devtron/crds
kubectl delete ns devtroncd
```

### FAQs

<details>
  <summary>1. How will I know when the installation is finished?</summary>
  
  Run the following command to check the status of the installation:
  
  ```bash
  kubectl -n devtroncd get installers installer-devtron -o jsonpath='{.status.sync.status}'
  ```

  The above command will print `Applied` once the installation process is complete. The installation process could take up to 30 minutes. 
</details>

<details>
  <summary>2. How do I track the progress of the installation?</summary>

  Run the following command to check the logs of the Pod:

  ```bash
  pod=$(kubectl -n devtroncd get po -l app=inception -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')&& kubectl -n devtroncd logs -f $pod
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>3. How can I restart the installation if the Devtron installer logs contain an error?</summary>

  First run the below command to clean up components installed by Devtron installer:

  ```bash
  cd devtron-installation-script/
  kubectl delete -n devtroncd -f yamls/
  kubectl -n devtroncd patch installer installer-devtron --type json -p '[{"op": "remove", "path": "/status"}]'
  ```

  Next, [install Devtron using Helm3](./install-devtron-helm-3.md)
</details>


Still facing issues, please reach out to us on [discord](https://discord.gg/jsRG5qx2gp).
